1. I search for whether or not said software is available in the {% include link.html url="https://packages.sabayon.org" link="Entropy Store" %}. If it is there I install it with Equo (e.g., via running {% include coders.html line1="equo i &lt;PACKAGE&gt;" %}), if not I proceed to the next step.
2. I search for whether or not said software is available in the {% include link.html url="https://packages.gentoo.org" link="Portage Tree" %}. If it is there I install it with Emerge (e.g., via running {% include coders.html line1="emerge -av &lt;PACKAGE&gt;" %}), otherwise I move onto the next step.
3. I search for whether or not the software is available in any {% include link.html url="http://gpo.zugaina.org/" link="unofficial overlays" %}. If it is, and the version number is acceptable (usually I prefer the latest stable version of a software, but sometimes I will settle for fairly recent stable versions) I may add the containing overlay with
{% include coder.html line1="layman -a &lt;OVERLAY&gt;" %}
then sync both Portage and Layman with (I also have this added as a function called `sync` in my `~/.bashrc` script)
{% include coder.html line1="emerge --sync && layman -S" %}
and then emerge the package with
{% include coder.html line1="emerge -av &lt;PACKAGE&gt;" %}
otherwise I proceed to the next step. If the package has several dependencies I try to install as many as possible with Entropy, before I emerge the remaining dependencies and `&lt;PACKAGE&gt;` itself. Often using pretend instead of ask options (`emerge -pv...` instead of `emerge -av...`) will be helpful if you want a list of packages to install with Entropy. Sometimes emerge will say you need to adjust your USE flags (stored in `/etc/portage/package.use/`), package keywords (stored in `/etc/portage/package.keywords`), list of accepted software licenses (stored in `/etc/portage/make.conf`) and alike to install the package you want.
4. 	If all else fails I get the source code and try compiling and installing it myself. This step is last, because this step is very error prone if, like me, you do not know an awful lot about compiling software or programming, in general. This step depends on the instructions in any INSTALL or README file included with the source code. If these files do not exist I use my knowledge on common compiling methods to install the software. For example, if the source code is written in C/C++ often there will be an autogen.sh or configure file somewhere in the source code base directory, which I will run (usually by opening up a terminal emulator and running {% include codeus.html line1="./&lt;FILE&gt;" %} where &lt;FILE&gt; is either autogen.sh or configure)) and read the output of. If the output includes an error, concerning some missing dependency, I will try to install said dependency (following the same algorithm outlined here) and re-run the autogen.sh/configure script or if the dependency is on my PC already I will try giving the autogen.sh or configure file a PATH variable pointing to the dependency's location on my system when I re-execute them. If no errors are encountered when running these scripts, or I manage to fix them with the methods I just mentioned I then run {% include codeu.html line1="make" line2="sudo make install" %}
    While if the source code is written in Python I look for a setup.py file and run
		{% include coder.html line1="python setup.py install" %}

5.  If errors are encountered at any of these steps (by errors I do not include the absence of available software packages as errors) I also attempt to seek support. For example, if the failure happened with an added unofficial overlay I often find the GitHub repository that houses the overlay and create a new issue for said repository. This process of getting support often occurs quite slowly, taking several days, at least, to get any solution to the problem, so often if failures happen I move onto the next step of this algorithm (if there are any steps left) before I report the failures.
