### Entropy
{% include image.html image="Rigo-Application-Browser.png" width="1366" height="738" float="none" description="Rigo Application Browser running under KDE Plasma 5" %}

{% include links.html package="sys-apps/entropy" program="Entropy" gr="Sabayon/entropy" sw="En:Entropy" link="/man/equo.pdf" pdf="PDF" %}, is a PMS that was specifically designed for Sabayon by Fabio Erculiani, the original creator of Sabayon. Its first unstable release to be added to Sabayon was in July 2008 (although its first unstable release full stop was back in 2007, according to Entropy's GitHub repository[^2]) when {% include forum.html f="60" t="13917" link="Sabayon 3.5 was released" %} and its first stable release to be added to Sabayon was made in 2012. Unlike Portage which is primarily designed to install source code packages (although it can also install binary packages), Entropy is designed to work with binary packages only. Binary packages take less time than source code packages to install and requires less user know-how and input. Entropy is also unique in that it has two official front-ends: command-line/textual (**Equo**) and graphical (**Rigo**). I personally favour using the command-line for installing packages on Linux distributions, because in my experience graphical installers are more prone to crashes during installation than their command-line/textual counterparts.

Compared to Portage, Entropy is far more simple to use, if you go to the Entropy Store you can see the USE flags used to compile the software packages provided by Entropy, as all packages provided by Entropy had to be compiled with Portage on another machine first (in `.tbz2` format) and then convert from a Portage package to an Entropy package with {% include coders-fs.html line1="equo pkg inflate &lt;PACKAGE&gt;"%} Entropy contains packages from the Portage Tree and packages from Sabayon's own overlays, which are called [`sabayon`](https://github.com/Sabayon/for-gentoo) and [`sabayon-distro`](https://github.com/Sabayon/sabayon-distro), respectively. Entropy is also safer to use and support for using Entropy to install packages is far better than support for Portage-installed packages on the [Sabayon forums](https://forum.sabayon.org/).

#### Equo Syntax
The generalized syntax for Entropy's command-line front-end, Equo, is:
{% include coder.html line1="equo [<em>action</em>] [<em>options</em>] [<em>ebuild</em> | <em>atom</em>]" %}
Some (but by no stretch of the imagine all) options and actions for Equo are listed in tables 4 and 5, below. Note some options are only available for certain actions, for details see the man pages for Equo and its various actions (e.g., run `man equo install` for the equo install manual). One action and another option that are not covered in these tables, that I felt were worthwhile mentioning, are repo and mirrorsort, respectively. The command:
{% include coder.html line1="equo repo mirrorsort &lt;REPO&gt;" %}
where `<REPO>` is the name of an Entropy repository (e.g., `sabayonlinux.org`, `sabayon-weekly` or `sabayon-limbo`), can be used to optimize the order of preference for the repository's mirrors, hence, potentially, accelerating the process by which Sabayon downloads software packages.
{% include PMS/table6-equo-options.html %}
<br/>
{% include PMS/table7-equo-actions.html %}
